sconscontrib/SCons/Tool/qt5/README.rst, before:

####################################
The SCons qt5 tool
####################################

Basics
======
This tool can be used to compile Qt projects, designed for versions 5.x.y and higher.
It is not usable for Qt3 and older versions, since some of the helper tools
(``moc``, ``uic``) behave different.

Install
-------
Installing it, requires you to copy (or, even better: checkout) the contents of the
package's ``qt5`` folder to

#. "``/path_to_your_project/site_scons/site_tools/qt5``", if you need the Qt5 Tool in one project only, or
#. "``~/.scons/site_scons/site_tools/qt5``", for a system-wide installation under your current login.

For more infos about this, please refer to 

* the SCons User's Guide, sect. "Where to put your custom Builders and Tools" and
* the SCons Tools Wiki page at `http://scons.org/wiki/ToolsIndex <http://scons.org/wiki/ToolsIndex/>`_.

How to activate
---------------
For activating the tool "qt5", you have to add its name to the Environment constructor,
like this::

    env = Environment(tools=['default','qt5'])


On its startup, the Qt5 tool tries to read the variable ``QT5DIR`` from the current
Environment and ``os.environ``. If it is not set, the value of ``QTDIR`` (in
Environment/``os.environ``) is used as a fallback.

So, you either have to explicitly give the path of your Qt5 installation to the
Environment with::

    env['QT5DIR'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3'

or set the ``QT5DIR`` as environment variable in your shell.

Requirements
------------
Under Linux, "qt5" uses the system tool ``pkg-config`` for automatically
setting the required compile and link flags of the single Qt5 modules (like QtCore,
QtGui,...).
This means that

#. you should have ``pkg-config`` installed, and
#. you additionally have to set ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` in your shell environment, such
   that it points to $``QT5DIR/lib/pkgconfig`` (or $``QT5DIR/lib`` for some older versions).

Based on these two environment variables (``QT5DIR`` and ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH``),
the "qt5" tool initializes all ``QT5_*``
construction variables listed in the Reference manual. This happens when the tool
is "detected" during Environment construction. As a consequence, the setup
of the tool gets a two-stage process, if you want to override the values provided
by your current shell settings::

    # Stage 1: create plain environment
    qtEnv = Environment()
    # Set new vars
    qtEnv['QT5DIR'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3'
    qtEnv['ENV']['PKG_CONFIG_PATH'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3/lib/pkgconfig'
    # Stage 2: add qt5 tool
    qtEnv.Tool('qt5')

Suggested boilerplate
=====================
Based on the requirements above, we suggest a simple ready-to-go setup
as follows:

SConstruct::

    # Detect Qt version
    qtdir = detectLatestQtDir()

    # Create base environment
    baseEnv = Environment()
    # ...further customization of base env

    # Clone Qt environment
    qtEnv = baseEnv.Clone()
    # Set QT5DIR and PKG_CONFIG_PATH
    qtEnv['ENV']['PKG_CONFIG_PATH'] = os.path.join(qtdir, 'lib/pkgconfig')
    qtEnv['QT5DIR'] = qtdir
    # Add qt5 tool
    qtEnv.Tool('qt5')
    # ...further customization of qt env

    # Export environments
    Export('baseEnv qtEnv')

    # Your other stuff...
    # ...including the call to your SConscripts


In a SConscript::

    # Get the Qt5 environment
    Import('qtEnv')
    # Clone it
    env = qtEnv.clone()
    # Patch it
    env.Append(CCFLAGS=['-m32'])  # or whatever
    # Use it
    env.StaticLibrary('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))


The detection of the Qt directory could be as simple as directly assigning
a fixed path::

    def detectLatestQtDir():
        return "/usr/local/qt5.3.2"


or a little more sophisticated::

    # Tries to detect the path to the installation of Qt with
    # the highest version number
    def detectLatestQtDir():
        if sys.platform.startswith("linux"):
            # Simple check: inspect only '/usr/local/Trolltech'
            paths = glob.glob('/usr/local/Trolltech/*')
            if len(paths):
                paths.sort()
                return paths[-1]
            else:
                return ""
        else:
            # Simple check: inspect only 'C:\Qt'
            paths = glob.glob('C:\\Qt\\*')
            if len(paths):
                paths.sort()
                return paths[-1]
            else:
                return os.environ.get("QTDIR", "")

A first project
===============
The following SConscript is for a simple project with
some cxx files, using the QtCore, QtGui
and QtNetwork modules::

    Import('qtEnv')
    env = qtEnv.Clone()
    env.EnableQt5Modules(['QtGui', 'QtCore', 'QtNetwork'])
    # Add your CCFLAGS and CPPPATHs to env here...

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))


MOC it up
=========
For the basic support of automocing, nothing needs to be
done by the user. The tool usually detects the ``Q_OBJECT``
macro and calls the "``moc``" executable accordingly.

If you don't want this, you can switch off the automocing
by a::

    env['QT5_AUTOSCAN'] = 0


in your SConscript file. Then, you have to moc your files
explicitly, using the Moc5 builder.

You can also switch to an extended automoc strategy with::

    env['QT5_AUTOSCAN_STRATEGY'] = 1


Please read the description of the ``QT5_AUTOSCAN_STRATEGY``
variable in the Reference manual for details.

For debugging purposes, you can set the variable ``QT5_DEBUG``
with::

    env['QT5_DEBUG'] = 1

which outputs a lot of messages during automocing.

Forms (.ui)
===========
The header files with setup code for your GUI classes, are not
compiled automatically from your ``.ui`` files. You always
have to call the Uic5 builder explicitly like::

    env.Uic5(Glob('*.ui'))
    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))

Resource files (.qrc)
=====================
Resource files are not built automatically, you always
have to add the names of the ``.qrc`` files to the source list
for your program or library::

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp') + Glob('*.qrc'))


For each of the Resource input files, its prefix defines the
name of the resulting resource. An appropriate "``-name``" option
is added to the call of the ``rcc`` executable
by default.

You can also call the Qrc5 builder explicitly as::

    qrccc = env.Qrc5('foo')  # ['foo.qrc'] -> ['qrc_foo.cc']

or (overriding the default suffix)::

    qrccc = env.Qrc5('myprefix_foo.cxx','foo.qrc')  # -> ['qrc_myprefix_foo.cxx']


and then add the resulting cxx file to the sources of your
Program/Library::

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp') + qrccc)

Translation files
=================
The update of the ``.ts`` files and the conversion to binary
``.qm`` files is not done automatically. You have to call the
corresponding builders on your own.

Example for updating a translation file::

    env.Ts5('foo.ts','.') # -> ['foo.ts']

By default, the ``.ts`` files are treated as *precious* targets. This means that
they are not removed prior to a rebuild, but simply get updated. Additionally, they
do not get cleaned on a "``scons -c``". If you want to delete the translation files
on the "``-c``" SCons command, you can set the variable "``QT5_CLEAN_TS``" like this::

    env['QT5_CLEAN_TS']=1

Example for releasing a translation file, i.e. compiling
it to a ``.qm`` binary file::

    env.Qm5('foo') # ['foo.ts'] -> ['foo.qm']

or (overriding the output prefix)::

    env.Qm5('myprefix','foo') # ['foo.ts'] -> ['myprefix.qm']

As an extension both, the Ts5() and Qm5 builder, support the definition of
multiple targets. So, calling::

    env.Ts5(['app_en','app_de'], Glob('*.cpp'))

and::

    env.Qm5(['app','copy'], Glob('*.ts'))

should work fine.

Finally, two short notes about the support of directories for the Ts5() builder. You can
pass an arbitrary mix of cxx files and subdirs to it, as in::

    env.Ts5('app_en', ['sub1', 'appwindow.cpp', 'main.cpp']))

where ``sub1`` is a folder that gets scanned recursively for cxx files by ``lupdate``.
But like this, you lose all dependency information for the subdir, i.e. if a file
inside the folder changes, the .ts file is not updated automatically! In this case
you should tell SCons to always update the target::

    ts = env.Ts5('app_en', ['sub1', 'appwindow.cpp', 'main.cpp'])
    env.AlwaysBuild(ts)

Last note: specifying the current folder "``.``" as input to Ts5() and storing the resulting
.ts file in the same directory, leads to a dependency cycle! You then have to store the .ts
and .qm files outside of the current folder, or use ``Glob('*.cpp'))`` instead.

Commit message:

Add note to qt4 and qt5 how to make current code work with scons < 4.2.0

sconscontrib/SCons/Tool/qt5/README.rst, after:

####################################
The SCons qt5 tool
####################################

NOTE 
====
Code expects SCons 4.2.0 or higher. If you must use an older version of SCons, 
search for _defines in __init__.py and uncomment the old version.

Basics
======
This tool can be used to compile Qt projects, designed for versions 5.x.y and higher.
It is not usable for Qt3 and older versions, since some of the helper tools
(``moc``, ``uic``) behave different.

Install
-------
Installing it, requires you to copy (or, even better: checkout) the contents of the
package's ``qt5`` folder to

#. "``/path_to_your_project/site_scons/site_tools/qt5``", if you need the Qt5 Tool in one project only, or
#. "``~/.scons/site_scons/site_tools/qt5``", for a system-wide installation under your current login.

For more infos about this, please refer to 

* the SCons User's Guide, sect. "Where to put your custom Builders and Tools" and
* the SCons Tools Wiki page at `http://scons.org/wiki/ToolsIndex <http://scons.org/wiki/ToolsIndex/>`_.

How to activate
---------------
For activating the tool "qt5", you have to add its name to the Environment constructor,
like this::

    env = Environment(tools=['default','qt5'])


On its startup, the Qt5 tool tries to read the variable ``QT5DIR`` from the current
Environment and ``os.environ``. If it is not set, the value of ``QTDIR`` (in
Environment/``os.environ``) is used as a fallback.

So, you either have to explicitly give the path of your Qt5 installation to the
Environment with::

    env['QT5DIR'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3'

or set the ``QT5DIR`` as environment variable in your shell.

Requirements
------------
Under Linux, "qt5" uses the system tool ``pkg-config`` for automatically
setting the required compile and link flags of the single Qt5 modules (like QtCore,
QtGui,...).
This means that

#. you should have ``pkg-config`` installed, and
#. you additionally have to set ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` in your shell environment, such
   that it points to $``QT5DIR/lib/pkgconfig`` (or $``QT5DIR/lib`` for some older versions).

Based on these two environment variables (``QT5DIR`` and ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH``),
the "qt5" tool initializes all ``QT5_*``
construction variables listed in the Reference manual. This happens when the tool
is "detected" during Environment construction. As a consequence, the setup
of the tool gets a two-stage process, if you want to override the values provided
by your current shell settings::

    # Stage 1: create plain environment
    qtEnv = Environment()
    # Set new vars
    qtEnv['QT5DIR'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3'
    qtEnv['ENV']['PKG_CONFIG_PATH'] = '/usr/local/Trolltech/Qt-5.2.3/lib/pkgconfig'
    # Stage 2: add qt5 tool
    qtEnv.Tool('qt5')

Suggested boilerplate
=====================
Based on the requirements above, we suggest a simple ready-to-go setup
as follows:

SConstruct::

    # Detect Qt version
    qtdir = detectLatestQtDir()

    # Create base environment
    baseEnv = Environment()
    # ...further customization of base env

    # Clone Qt environment
    qtEnv = baseEnv.Clone()
    # Set QT5DIR and PKG_CONFIG_PATH
    qtEnv['ENV']['PKG_CONFIG_PATH'] = os.path.join(qtdir, 'lib/pkgconfig')
    qtEnv['QT5DIR'] = qtdir
    # Add qt5 tool
    qtEnv.Tool('qt5')
    # ...further customization of qt env

    # Export environments
    Export('baseEnv qtEnv')

    # Your other stuff...
    # ...including the call to your SConscripts


In a SConscript::

    # Get the Qt5 environment
    Import('qtEnv')
    # Clone it
    env = qtEnv.clone()
    # Patch it
    env.Append(CCFLAGS=['-m32'])  # or whatever
    # Use it
    env.StaticLibrary('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))


The detection of the Qt directory could be as simple as directly assigning
a fixed path::

    def detectLatestQtDir():
        return "/usr/local/qt5.3.2"


or a little more sophisticated::

    # Tries to detect the path to the installation of Qt with
    # the highest version number
    def detectLatestQtDir():
        if sys.platform.startswith("linux"):
            # Simple check: inspect only '/usr/local/Trolltech'
            paths = glob.glob('/usr/local/Trolltech/*')
            if len(paths):
                paths.sort()
                return paths[-1]
            else:
                return ""
        else:
            # Simple check: inspect only 'C:\Qt'
            paths = glob.glob('C:\\Qt\\*')
            if len(paths):
                paths.sort()
                return paths[-1]
            else:
                return os.environ.get("QTDIR", "")

A first project
===============
The following SConscript is for a simple project with
some cxx files, using the QtCore, QtGui
and QtNetwork modules::

    Import('qtEnv')
    env = qtEnv.Clone()
    env.EnableQt5Modules(['QtGui', 'QtCore', 'QtNetwork'])
    # Add your CCFLAGS and CPPPATHs to env here...

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))


MOC it up
=========
For the basic support of automocing, nothing needs to be
done by the user. The tool usually detects the ``Q_OBJECT``
macro and calls the "``moc``" executable accordingly.

If you don't want this, you can switch off the automocing
by a::

    env['QT5_AUTOSCAN'] = 0


in your SConscript file. Then, you have to moc your files
explicitly, using the Moc5 builder.

You can also switch to an extended automoc strategy with::

    env['QT5_AUTOSCAN_STRATEGY'] = 1


Please read the description of the ``QT5_AUTOSCAN_STRATEGY``
variable in the Reference manual for details.

For debugging purposes, you can set the variable ``QT5_DEBUG``
with::

    env['QT5_DEBUG'] = 1

which outputs a lot of messages during automocing.

Forms (.ui)
===========
The header files with setup code for your GUI classes, are not
compiled automatically from your ``.ui`` files. You always
have to call the Uic5 builder explicitly like::

    env.Uic5(Glob('*.ui'))
    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp'))

Resource files (.qrc)
=====================
Resource files are not built automatically, you always
have to add the names of the ``.qrc`` files to the source list
for your program or library::

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp') + Glob('*.qrc'))


For each of the Resource input files, its prefix defines the
name of the resulting resource. An appropriate "``-name``" option
is added to the call of the ``rcc`` executable
by default.

You can also call the Qrc5 builder explicitly as::

    qrccc = env.Qrc5('foo')  # ['foo.qrc'] -> ['qrc_foo.cc']

or (overriding the default suffix)::

    qrccc = env.Qrc5('myprefix_foo.cxx','foo.qrc')  # -> ['qrc_myprefix_foo.cxx']


and then add the resulting cxx file to the sources of your
Program/Library::

    env.Program('foo', Glob('*.cpp') + qrccc)

Translation files
=================
The update of the ``.ts`` files and the conversion to binary
``.qm`` files is not done automatically. You have to call the
corresponding builders on your own.

Example for updating a translation file::

    env.Ts5('foo.ts','.') # -> ['foo.ts']

By default, the ``.ts`` files are treated as *precious* targets. This means that
they are not removed prior to a rebuild, but simply get updated. Additionally, they
do not get cleaned on a "``scons -c``". If you want to delete the translation files
on the "``-c``" SCons command, you can set the variable "``QT5_CLEAN_TS``" like this::

    env['QT5_CLEAN_TS']=1

Example for releasing a translation file, i.e. compiling
it to a ``.qm`` binary file::

    env.Qm5('foo') # ['foo.ts'] -> ['foo.qm']

or (overriding the output prefix)::

    env.Qm5('myprefix','foo') # ['foo.ts'] -> ['myprefix.qm']

As an extension both, the Ts5() and Qm5 builder, support the definition of
multiple targets. So, calling::

    env.Ts5(['app_en','app_de'], Glob('*.cpp'))

and::

    env.Qm5(['app','copy'], Glob('*.ts'))

should work fine.

Finally, two short notes about the support of directories for the Ts5() builder. You can
pass an arbitrary mix of cxx files and subdirs to it, as in::

    env.Ts5('app_en', ['sub1', 'appwindow.cpp', 'main.cpp']))

where ``sub1`` is a folder that gets scanned recursively for cxx files by ``lupdate``.
But like this, you lose all dependency information for the subdir, i.e. if a file
inside the folder changes, the .ts file is not updated automatically! In this case
you should tell SCons to always update the target::

    ts = env.Ts5('app_en', ['sub1', 'appwindow.cpp', 'main.cpp'])
    env.AlwaysBuild(ts)

Last note: specifying the current folder "``.``" as input to Ts5() and storing the resulting
.ts file in the same directory, leads to a dependency cycle! You then have to store the .ts
and .qm files outside of the current folder, or use ``Glob('*.cpp'))`` instead.
